I work on adjective comparison classes and what kinds of information affect how people choose a comparison class. Many experimental paradigms seem to assume that when given a visual context in an experimental setting, people use that context as the comparison class, and judge the objects in the context as, for exammple, *big* or *small* based only on the context presented. Tribushinina (2011) shows that people use their world knowledge in addition to the visual context presented to them when deciding what the comparison class of an adjective is. I am planning on examining this question more closely in my dissertation work, and probing in more depth what kind of information affects these judgments and when. A good first step though, is to replicate the results in Tribushinina (2011), both to verify them and to get the basic paradigm set up, so that later I can play with it, for example with different items.


The stimuli for the first experiment described in Tribushinina (2011) consisted of 12 sets of pictures, each set consisting of seven pictures of the same object ranging in size from 1-7 cm, increasing in size at 1 cm increments. The participants saw a set of objects on a screen and heard the question "which Xs do you find big/small" (in Dutch, but in principle it shouldn't matter, and I think it should be replicable in English). The items consisted of prototypically big entities (elephants, hippos, houses, planes), prototypically small entities (babies, chickens, gnomes, mice) and prototype-neutral entities that are not particularly associated with either *big* or *small* (balloons, cakes, monkeys, umbrellas). One issue is that the objects were chosen based on what is prototypically considered *big* or *small* in Dutch based on corpus work, and I'm not sure how generalizabe all of them are. Also, she doesn't describe here the exact procedure used for deciding these were prototypical. I care less about the protoype effects she finds, though it would be nice to find those as well. Each participant saw each of the 12 objecct sets in four types of trials, ascending/descending crossed with *big*/*small*. There were two pretest questions -- eleven balloons of different colors, where they were asked "Which balloons do you find pretty" and six cars with the question "Which cars do you find ugly". The stimuli were pseudorandomized with
respect to two factors: the side of the relevant pole (left or right) and the adjective (*big* or *small*).

The analysis looks at two things. First, they analyzed which objects were considered *big* or *small*, which is straightforward to measure, though it's not always totally clear from the paper exactly which measure she was looking at. The other thing they looked at was reaction times, in order to look at differences in processing effort between congruent (e.g. asking which seem *big* about prototypically big items) and incongruent questions (e.g. asking *big* about prototypically small items) and whether *small* was more effortful than *big*. It may be difficult to collect reaction times (from adjective onset to first pointing move) on Turk, especially since there's no way to guarantee people are not multi-tasking. However, this part of the question interests me less, so I'm not sure how important it is to replicate.